thank you
lindsay um i'll get going and i like
what
lindsay said there which is let's make
it interactive so if you want to unmute
and
ask a question feel free to do that if
you want to use the chat to ask a
question that also works
between lindsey and i we should be able
to catch everything and be able to
address it
all right um so this just actually came
up on twitter because
a lot of folks talk about internships
and what makes a good internship and
what makes a bad internship and i've
worked many in many many companies and
i've seen the good the bad and the ugly
um so i did want to walk through why i
think it's important i'm actually quite
passionate about the internship program
um and any company because i think it is
a there's lots of reasons but i think
it's actually a great way to get in
touch with
the next generation of people coming
into the workforce
all right um so why should i
be uh you know regarded as somebody who
knows about interns i mean
i think the easiest way to think about
it is that i've actually been at a bunch
of small
and large companies and have run
internship programs at both
um so small small companies like started
my own company
as well as worked at some large ones
like microsoft and i've seen
um like i mentioned what works well and
what doesn't work well and i'm hoping
people take
from what they take away from this
session is how to do this in a way that
is effective for the intern and for your
company
i've always had a focus not just on
internships but new grad hiring i think
it's amazing
to bring new people into the workforce
and how to make that successful
and i think the other counter-intuitive
thing is no matter what company you're
at whether it's large or small
you are able to compete with some of the
biggest companies in the world for
interns and for talent in general
and it doesn't have to be that you have
to pay the intern more
um one example is that when uh you know
i was running extreme labs
the um the internship program there the
first time we went to waterloo which is
a school
that we hired lots of interns from we
couldn't even get interns in the third
round like we would go
for a round of interviews we'd get zero
we go second round which is all the
interns who didn't get placed we would
get zero
we have to be in the third round before
we got any interns and we turned that
around
over i would say two or three terms to
being the number one place for interns
to work
even though we were p you know facebook
for example was paying three times the
salary
p interns would still come to us and we
would get all our interns filled in the
first round with almost 100 acceptance
so there are ways to do this and it's
not about um just compensation
cool all right so let's start off with
what an internship
is and i think this is important because
i actually wrote an article about
interns and some of these questions come
up so
let's let's first start here an
internship is a temporary placement
um usually it's about four months it can
be longer i know some schools do like
what's called a pey i wrote their
professional experience here where they
do
multiple four-month internships in a row
so it could last up to 16 months i've
had interns
um that have been around for that long
um and
sometimes even people change careers and
do an internship um we saw this actually
there's that famous movie right
robert de niro the intern right where he
like leaves the workforce and comes back
so there are ways to use an internship
as a way to um get back into the
workforce the one thing i definitely
want to clarify because whenever i talk
about internships or co-ops somebody
always comes in and says
make sure you pay your interns and i 100
agree i'm surprised that somehow the
word intern gets equated with free work
it is not free work it should not be
considered free work it is paid work
and so something to make sure people are
thinking about is don't automatically
assume if you see an intern that means
unpaid
sometimes they are i've seen job
postings they unpair unpaid internship
i don't think companies should do it i
don't think anyone who's thinking about
going into an internship should
um should work for free but it is
something we see in the industry so it
is good to get that
message sorted up front and i've never
been in a company where we've done
unpaid internships
and i've also i don't also recommend it
so um and i'll talk a little bit about
how to think about uh
compensation there um so why so let's
start off at the beginning
why even have interns like why are we
talking about this and why do people
think
uh it's an important topic um this was a
great headline
i've kept it in presentations it's from
2011 but
when you think about hiring the best
talent what people confound
is they try to always find people with
experience
and the misnomer is is that if i find
someone with experience it takes me less
time to onboard it takes me less time
to get them to be effective and that's
why i want to focus my efforts there
well people forget many way in many ways
is that
experienced people get experience
somewhere and they learn they become
imprinted in their first few jobs out of
school
and so what typically happens is the
next generation set of companies tries
to hire usually
the younger workforce because they've
grown up in a different generation but
also
it is a feeder into becoming an
experienced person in your workplace
right so imagine an intern who works for
you
a few years later they're a full time a
few years later they're an experienced
person
and what's different about hiring
somebody from outside is that
they would have tons of context about
your company but also because
of them coming from the workforce at a
different generation than you did
they'll bring different ideas and
different ways of working so i think it
is important to think about interns
paradoxically as a way to increase the
diversity in your organization from a
generation perspective
the other thing i found interesting is
whenever i've had a really robust
internship program
i find that it's easier to hire full
times
and i think that's a combination of
things whether it's greater a better
sense of how to onboard or even thinking
through
um why are all the cool kids going to
this company
the experienced people actually want to
figure that out and so
i found that it is much easier to hire
full times when
you have a robust internship program
all right so i talked about some of
these um it is maybe paradoxical for
some folks to figure to learn that you
can
you know learn things from your interns
um it is definitely true
they like i said you know here's a good
example when we were running extreme
labs the iphone came out in 07
and when we were um building mobile apps
the
people who grew up with mobile right the
people who were growing up with uh
who grew up with the internet and grew
up with mobile they started coming into
our company and you could see that they
were approaching
the ways in which to use these devices
differently than we were
right we came from the desktop world
their first computers might have been
mobile phones
and tablets right and so that made a big
difference for us in seeing how those
things were used
um i think you know i talked a little
bit about new approaches you know one
example is i know
of a few companies who look to y
combinator which is an accelerator
to figure out what the next version of
tech stacks are and if you think of the
probably demographic of y combinator
younger people
people who are earlier in their careers
and if if big companies are looking at
them to figure out the next tech stack
then maybe we should be looking at
interns to figure out the next ways of
working
um very you know you can see the
pipeline
um uh growing when you have an
internship program
specifically on converting them to full
time they don't always have to convert
but i think it is a good
way to get those early engineers or
early people in your company
it changes the energy equation so i have
definitely seen
um the the amount of energy whether even
if it's remote
of the interns they tend to want to
figure things out they tend to be more
curious and they do change the energy in
a group
because of how eager usually they are
and so i think that
can change a dynamic in your company i
mentioned career imprinting there's a
very famous hbr article
that talks about the first few jobs you
work in
actually imprint you for the rest of
your career and so this
allows you as an employer to impart your
ways of working on the next generation
of workforce even if they don't work for
you um
later on and so it was very easy to see
um
for some companies for some people you
meet them and you're like oh you must
have worked at microsoft or google or
facebook or mckinsey because of the way
that they work and that
comes from career and printing and then
lastly um i talked about diversity
from you know from an age perspective
but you can also um
use the intern diversity as a way to
change the diversity in your company
right so it could be age it could be
race it could be gender
those are things that you can actually
use an internship program to to help
with
because you can learn from how those um
by bringing those people in how much
better your company is by having all
sorts of folks from different
backgrounds in your company
cool questions on the why before i get
to um
the how yeah yeah go ahead
um when you talk about their eagerness
how do you balance that with
them getting frustrated in the workforce
so balancing
keeping their eager up high but not
getting them too frustrated with
the flow yeah so i would say so i'll get
to this in a few slides but my number
one
thing to think about with interns and
with any even with new hires is
you always want to give them real work
you always want to give them like a real
project in real
a real job and this happened to me in my
own internships where
i was at a small company of five people
and one of the engineers quit
and so now i was the intern like who had
to like take over that person's job
because they were a small company
it would take them a long time to hire
somebody and they just threw they just
gave me his job
and it was amazing because i got to um
i just got to take over all that work
and i got to i ended up building
building like you know part of a
significant system
i think that if you're if you're in a
company and
uh you have interns you have to think
about them as not like having intern
projects or like here's a small sliver
of something you have to think of them
as your full times
and if you think of them as your full
times you should be taking their
suggestions and feedback you should be
unblocking them they should have the
same level of access as everybody else
like that's the way in order for them to
for that for you to also feel like
they're getting the full-time experience
that helps you also decide whether
they're a fit for your company and
you're a fit for them
so i think that is how i think about
making sure that
they're having the same experience now
if they're having an experience where
they get frustrated then maybe your full
times are having that experience
right like that it should be the same
feedback um i would just very
be very very careful on treating them
differently i remember i was at a
company and
um this is like you know super uh
annoying
the they had different food for the
interns like it was almost like a
like a snack room for full times and a
snack room for i was like why is this
separate they're like oh yeah because
the
interns like eat a lot i'm like so like
buy more food right like it but
there should be no difference and uh it
shouldn't even be apparent to anybody
you can be in a client services type
business product company like
no one should really know that they're
interns you shouldn't have i know i
think i'm uh when i was at microsoft
maybe they changed it
you had like a different email address
like i dash or something and then people
knew that was an intern like i don't
think you should
delete them in any way
thank you cool no problem all right so
what are interns looking for so like
think about the other side of that
equation
if you are trying to figure out how to
have a great internship program and i've
seen this because i go on campus and i
talk to interns and i see companies
trying to hire interns
how are they attracting interns and i'll
take the
the suggestions from dan pink's book
drive where he talks about mastery
autonomy and purpose
this is actually true i think for full
times as well not just for interns but
everyone's looking for mastery which is
how do i become the best
in my craft autonomy how do i do it with
some level of creativity and leeway
and then three purpose how do i make
sure actually working on something that
is bigger than myself
now while full times and interns share
that i would say
interns in specific actually look for
other types of things
because it's part of a community
building event for them right internship
programs i actually tweeted out recently
that i was the president of the intern
cohort
in like 1996 when i did an internet
internship at newbridge
and it is about community so interns are
specifically looking for mentorship
right which which means that if you're
as a company have a have a system
designed for other mentorship i know in
my career i've always focused on pair
programming
and so we always had an easy uh easy
uh opportunity to hire interns because
interns always wanted a pair program
because it's a great mentorship
opportunity
they want to network they want to meet
other people in the industry they want
to meet the other interns
because usually interns come from
different schools they also want to
potentially try out your company and
domain
so engineers could do an internship in
product management
if you're in product management you
might do an internship in ux that's
actually a great way to do it and we see
this sometimes in career switchers
but also for people who are in school
trying to figure out what they want to
do for their internship so trying a new
domain and of course trying a new
company
do i want to work at shopify facebook
apple
go do an internship um actually i think
it comes up in a slide i encourage
people who
i thought did a great job at my company
and i would give them a full-time offer
to still
finish their internships at other
companies because
you want to make sure that you are
getting that experience and you figure
out oh yeah this really is the company
for me
right and that also puts i think the
onus on the employer to have a great
experience for their full times and
interns because
you're making a big bet if they you're
giving them a full-time offer then they
go work at facebook for four months
right um but we i think never
saw anybody like not come back after
that
so maybe one time cool questions about
what interns are looking for
i think it is important to think of them
differently than full times on the
attraction side because if you look at
the bottom of the slide
that is typically different than a
full-time employee but
the top part is the same
any questions no all right so how do you
recruit interns
so i think this is quite interesting
because there are uh different ways and
different approaches
so obviously the job sites and your own
website and the school has sites
actually that's maybe a little bit of a
trick
not everybody knows that the schools
have their own websites usually
i would email the administrators of
schools and say i'd like to put a
posting on your site and they always
have some
secret internal place they don't usually
um have like a form you can fill it
might even just be an email address and
say can you post this
i actually actually didn't put this in
here i email professors directly
and say hey who are your top students
and i try to get recruit them directly
as well
i'm also also not on here and i'm
thinking of them now
is i would do talks for classes i would
message a professor and say i would love
to come in you can interview me or i can
talk about a topic
and that's a great way to get interns as
well um career fairs is an amazing one
because interns do have a specific
career fair uh usually from each school
of course this is pre-covered and
hopefully postcoded there'll be career
fairs
i famously hired seven engineers
at a career fair like hired them like
not didn't like just get their resumes
or give them a t-shirt actually hire
them at the career fair
and so i think that there are amazing
ways to reduce the friction to talking
to people directly and
in my case i just hired them on the spot
uh and then they all showed up on monday
for work
um and what we're doing now for covet
and shopify does this is we have
webinars where we actually explain
uh about a certain domain specific topic
and then talk about our internship
program
so we did one around ux we did one i
think around product management and
engineering
we did one about like women in tech and
then we also talked about our internship
program and why you should apply
my like super secret trick for in for
info sessions was to
um have food so this is like a you know
as
maybe people forget about their student
days but everybody wants free food and
pop i don't know if i had
beer as much but pop and beer and pizza
and i would do a tech talk so i'd come
in and talk about either how we work
or talk on a technical topic and because
of the food
people used to show up and it is a great
way
to to entice people to apply and
an easy way to get people to apply is
have prizes right you could say i would
just say oh i'm giving out an xbox
and here is uh i'm gonna pick a resume
out of this pile and literally i would
just
you know people would go people would
leave their seminar print out their
resume
and come back like it would generate a
huge stack of resumes and that was a
good place to start
looking for interns and then lastly the
thing to figure out for your company is
visas
because people on this uh call are
probably from all over the world
you do have to think about if an intern
is at a school in
canada and you're you're in the states
are you going to do the visa are you
going to work with the legal firm does
the school do the visa
it is something to figure out just to
make sure that if you get excited about
hiring an intern
you have a way to make sure you can
bring the intern on actually this
happened
with kovid because a bunch of companies
in the u.s canceled their internships
because they couldn't get through i
think the visa process and so
um these interns have to um find work
elsewhere
question on the recruiting side i'm a
big fan of like
obviously postcovid like going to the
school uh and doing these sessions it's
a great way to connect with folks
um and i would run into old interns
always good to go back to the school
i would make sure to do that
questions all right keep going
i see jason's got like a graduation hat
on cool
so interviewing every school is
different
so some of them do have an interviewing
like you know i know waterloo has like a
building where they do interviews
i'm a big fan of doing like group or
automated interviews for the internships
because
you're going to have a large volume of
candidates applying and it might be an
easier way to figure out
how you can see if they're a fit for
your company
again interviews i've been very vocal
about this interviews are not that good
at predictor performance actually it's
on the slide
and it's really just a way for you to
figure out if somebody might be a fit
for you
and so the shorter you can make that
process like i wouldn't recommend
hours or hours long interviews for
interns because i don't think you're
going to learn that much
interns are in this amazing growth phase
where they're just trying to learn and
be curious
so the more you can do on the filtering
side which can be automated in a group
setting i know we sometimes we even have
like a
like 50 people in a room and we would
administer some sort of like programming
like assignment just to figure out hey
do these people know how to code
and maybe it's um more even on the
easier side for us to mark
it is it is a good idea i think to use
internships as a way to figure out if
people are fit for your company
and so you don't have to have anything
super crazy here but there's a lot of
great tools out there and you should try
them
right maybe you try a tool uh and you
like it you're like hey i could use this
for my full-time program as well
cool i see a question in the chat um
what advice do you have on adapting your
approach right now for the pandemic so
it's a good question from vic
so disclaimer vic and i used to work
together 22
years ago at trilogy but uh the question
is yeah what changes with that pandemic
well so a few things one is
you can't go to on campus and do info
sessions right everybody's remote
so we have switched over to doing
webinars um i do still try to do
like talks i did a class i did a talk
for like a
a university class i didn't talk for a
high school class you can still do that
you can either message the professor
directly
because they're all using zoom or google
meet and you can uh still do those talks
the other thing that changes of course
interviews interviews are remote so
an automated assessment tool is probably
more palatable
by candidates right now i know in some
cases people are like i don't want to do
this like it's
it's maybe you feel like you're being
treated not humanely because you're
going for an automated assessment
but right now it's much more in vogue
because everyone's gotta do something
remotely
and so i think that um you do wanna make
sure that
you take you don't miss out on hiring
interns right like we hired a shopify
hired hundreds of interns last year i
think over 450
we're going to continue to be in the
same range for this year so i don't
think it means you should slow down
one thing to think about though is when
you think about the move to remote work
there are many companies that focus on
more senior hires for remote or people
who have done remote before
and interns tend to fall off their
priority list so this is
you know due to a few things but it
could be an opportunity for companies
who want to hire because great people
are out there and not everybody's hiring
interns
the second thing is you do have to make
sure you need this for full times too
to have a very robust onboarding program
make sure that
interns are paired with a mentor you
have an onboarding program that helps
them understand your technology stack
your you know
first day package right laptop maybe
there's swag in there
has a book you want them to read or a
training course all of that stuff should
be set up in a way
that helps them have a great remote
onboarding experience
that's true for full times as well but
even more so for interns because they
are
even newer to the workplace
all right how many interns should you
hire this is always a
an interesting one because i always want
to push people to hire more interns
versus less and there's lots of reasons
for that
the the big reason for me is i find that
by bringing smart people into the
company they can increase the energy and
also
pair and whether it's pair product
management designing
engineering accounting finance there's
ways to pair these people up
with the great people who already at
your company so in startups i like to
think of like one-to-one
when i was at um extreme labs like by
the end there i put in you know we have
our ending stat there we had about 65
interns out of 350 employees but when we
were growing
we had one intern to one engineer like
all the way up even at helpful when i
started my own company
we hired four interns before i even had
four engineers and that forced me to
make sure i had engineers lined up to
pair with these interns before they
arrived
and so i'm a big fan at shopify for
example we do about 150 a term i'd like
to get that number up even higher
because i do think that there's a great
amazing energy
and things you learn from interns that
will allow you to accelerate your
product roadmap
um and actually have career development
for them and for everybody else
at your company so i think i talked
about it here at pair programming it's a
whole nother talk
but pair programming is a great way to
have people work together in high in
high fidelity
and if you've ever thought about moving
to a pair programming model or pairing
anything like i used to do pair
like finance like pairing with somebody
on doing all the invoices every month
it is a great way and not much of a lift
because you're basically doing the job
anyway and you're having somebody work
with you to do that job
so that's a great way to have two sharp
people feeding off each other
keeping their intensity high and
learning back and forth and you'd be
surprised
how often somebody younger in their
career can teach something to somebody
much later on in their career because of
their own different life experiences
i'm a huge fan and even at you know at
shopify for example we have a pair
programming
sidekick program or one for an hour a
week you can pair with different people
and so
i'll be sure to be paired up with some
interns this
uh this in the next few weeks as well as
i learned from them
questions about this and i'll tell you
one thing if you don't have a robust
internship program um
and all of the things i talked about so
far set up do not hire interns
in large numbers because you'll have a
more much poorer experience
when i was at microsoft unfortunately we
had a group there that was 30 people we
had one intern
and because of how our system was set up
we couldn't give that intern any real
meaningful work
and so it was actually a really bad
experience and i would have hated to
have even more interns
in that's in that cohort so instead it
was better to have that one intern for
us to figure out our program and how we
want to move forward
versus um trying to add more people to
it so figure it out
then scale versus just like that's
higher now i'm i'm a
little bit of a maverick there i'd
rather hire the interns and then figure
out the program
but um everybody's different that's how
i roll
questions about the ratio
all right we talked about this at the
beginning please
please please pay your interns and
whenever i tweet about interns somebody
always replies and goes
you should pay people i'm like interns
to me always means paid
so maybe i have to like have some auto
complete on my twitter or something but
every time i say intern
co-op any kind of job please make them
paid
this is one example so here's a great
one i just went to the university of
waterloo website
yesterday for this slide and said intern
salaries
and they have it so if you're ever
wondering like how much should i pay my
intern
right like this is a good a good frame
of reference and you can see the
variability
right like some people are being i mean
work term six as being paid as much as
sixty dollars an hour which is 120 grand
a year which is amazing
right for an intern um all the way
down to when you're first starting out
like 28 grand a year right so i think
there's obviously huge variability
depends on the company some companies
will
even give you a stipend for living but
every internship should be paid
i said that before if you are looking
for an internship
please get a paid one if you are
offering internships
please make them paid they are real
money now the other thing to think about
is government
programs can really help here i know in
canada we have great programs that you
can recoup
some of the cost of an intern as well
because it's helping people get into the
workforce
questions i put a little frowny face in
there internship is never zero
compensation's never zero
all right so i wrote this article and i
talked about this a little bit but
interns should have real jobs in real
work
the more you can remove the barrier
between intern and full-time
the better and that means
not delineating them differently right
like i think you know
at some point you can probably look up
in slack or in some wiki like
somebody's job title but outside of that
you shouldn't have a different email
address and they shouldn't have to like
put like
in turn in their email signature like
the more you can make it feel like
they're a full time the better it is for
you and them
you will be surprised how well they can
do
and this happens at every company from
every size from the small to the big
when people do things i never go oh wow
like an intern did that like just
somebody did it
and it happens to be sometimes like an
intern who uh who pulled it out
so the last line here is probably the
funniest
i did have some very bad internships in
my uh in my
interning days and literally when i
started at uh extreme labs my buddy
started the company
um him and i were interns and he goes
remember that internship we had in like
95 and the guy goes
don't do that like that's like remember
all those things just do the opposite of
what we did there
and so real work mentoring treating them
as full-time and the community is a big
part
making sure that they have an intern
community they can hang out with of
course now it's
the days of slacks you can literally
just have an intern slack group where
they can
share memes and talk about outings and
everything else obviously post covet but
today they can watch movies and do other
things don't give them like the crappy
shitty work
oh yeah i have an intern let's have them
do this kind of work that nobody wants
to do that's not how you set things up
for success
um don't treat them differently i
mentioned that that company that had
different snacks for the interns don't
do that
same things for all interns for all
employees at your company
and don't forget the intern is
interviewing for your company right this
is an in this is an interview they're
they're checking the company out they're
trying to figure out is this the place
that i want to work full-time is this a
place i want to tell my friends about
and um it's a great way to um
to see if they're fit if they're if
you're they're a fit for you and you're
fit for them and so
i think the better you do this the
better it is for both sides
community so this is somebody you
mentioned earlier
pandemic what changes this is a big part
of it
you do have to have an intern community
because
the uh with the pandemic people are not
getting together right it's not like
they're
living in dorms and hanging out or
living in the same city they're all
hanging out in their own
places probably by themselves and so
there are ways to make this community
more vibrant
of course mailing lists and slot groups
and having a coordinator really really
helps
depending on the size of your internship
program it couldn't be an employee or
like in my case i was president of the
interns when i was an intern
it can even be an intern you can pick
somebody and say hey you're gonna be the
um the head of the internship or
coordinator for the interns
can you set up bi-weekly socials can you
be in charge of the swag
i know even for um my remote team we did
like a chocolate tasting
or you do like a wine tasting like you
can do all that stuff and have somebody
help you with that
could be could be you could be a
coordinator or could just could be an
intern
i'm a big fan of swag actually like i
talked about this like i'm a big fan of
cohorting
swag so i haven't seen this ever since
uh we did it at extreme labs i'm trying
to get every company to do it but
cohorting swag means like
you do different swag every four months
and what i would do is i would give the
swag to the interns and to the full
times
and what was cool about the swag was you
could tell when people worked at your
company based on the swag they had
and it was really really cool we had
some themes that were the same right so
for example at extreme labs we had
extreme labs on the back of the t-shirts
which is also
a genius move because everybody went
back went back to school and you would
look at the backs of t-shirts and see
everybody's companies they worked at
but the other thing was people then like
wanted the different swag and the only
way to get it was
be at the company at that time so i'm a
big fan of cohorted swag
and uh not something small like 2014 but
literally like
a different design every four months and
we give it to the whole company
other good things for swag especially if
you're in some sort of domain like
product management
r d like ux or engineering is you can
give them the books you want them to
know before they arrive right so if you
want to give them a copy of clean code
or clean coder or
software engineering at google or don
like you know norman's like the design
of everyday things or a product
management handbook give it to him under
swag bag
right that allows you to you can even
tell them hey hoping
you get a chance to read this before you
start and that's a good way to
indoctrinate folks like some of the ways
in which you work
i would even put together an faq things
to think about
and of course you know t-shirts the
other thing we did from a community
perspective
is we would do like a takeover so at
extreme we had demo days of course
everybody would demo at shopify we do a
town hall town hall takeover when the
interns are almost done where they
they present like the whole town hall
they talk about things they learn
present their products and it's a good
way to give them air time but also they
get together
and and figure out what they want to
present
cool all right any questions before i
keep going
i might be getting closer to the end to
take more questions
ending the term so this is always
an interesting one should i offer uh a
an employee
sorry a couple things should i offer
them a full-time job or should i offer
them even another internship
and what about if they want to work
somewhere else so lots of thoughts on
this topic first one is
if they're an intern in their last term
they
are expecting potentially a full-time
offer
so if you're hiring an intern they're in
their last term before school ends it's
great because they showed up at your
company which means they're very serious
about your company as being a full-time
destination
it also means they're probably expecting
at least a yes or no
meaning you shouldn't just let the term
end if you don't even if you don't want
to give them a job
you shouldn't just let the term end you
should say hey this has been a great
term
here's what we're looking for for full
times but you let them know that you're
not going to be giving them a full-time
offer
it's good feedback for them and good for
you to actually walk through that
that reasoning if they are a full-time
great
give them an offer um this is a great
way i think in most companies i've seen
like 70 to 80
conversion here in terms of like giving
them an offer and then coming back
now if they are an intern and they're
still have many years left there's a
couple different things you can do
one is for sure give them an offer to
come back um
i know some companies offer them to quit
school you could do that
i haven't necessarily been a huge fan
although it depends on the company
right like right now i'm at shopify and
uh like you know toby didn't go to
university so it is it is quite normal
to be like hey you should quit school
and work at shopify and there are people
who've done it
and done well so that's a great uh
avenue i'm a big fan of giving them an
offer to come back
but i'm also a big fan of letting people
work at other companies to say hey
what else have you wanted to try did you
want to try product management did you
want to try ux you want to try
engineering
did you want to try like you know um
becoming a test engineer like there's
different places to go
did you want to try a different company
and then keep in touch
i'm also a fan of giving people
full-time offers
that don't kick in for a few years like
they're in second year i feel totally
comfortable giving them an offer
right now it's 20 21 i would give them
an offer to start in 2023.
like i would be totally fine giving them
that offer now um what i used to do is
give them
um a signing bonus i would pay the
signing bonus now
and then if they didn't wanna they
decided not to come they just paid the
signing bonus back
right um i found it was a good way to uh
like give them some extra spending cash
now they feel connected the other thing
i would do is i would add them to all
the
internal stuff i would give them an
email address i would send them a swag
bag
i would add them to our slack instance
like all the things so they feel like an
employee
but they're not working yet they're not
even getting paid yet they just have the
signing bonus
that keeps them connected to the
community we would invite them to all
the socials and like
christmas party and everything so they
would stay connected uh and then when
they eventually showed up they felt like
they were there the whole time
um and then of course like i said
sometimes somebody's like oh you know i
decided
after two years that i wanted to go do
something else and that's fine like i
think i mentioned one person ever ever
like came back and
and gave me my signing bonus back so it
totally works as a good technique
um and then if people end up going
somewhere else create an alumni group
whether it's a mailing list slack
channel that has external people in it
whatever you want to do
um because you can post job postings in
there you can ask for referrals
you can ask them how they're doing like
it's a good way to keep that community
going
and they don't have to be in your
company like this is a you have to play
the long long long game
and the long long long game is like
staying in touch with your interns many
many years after
i still keep in touch with a lot of my
interns even from like trilogy like
first job out of school i still talk to
some of those interns
um and then i mentioned referrals so
referrals can be just
hey you have anybody you think that you
want would work in my company but
could also be like paid referrals and
other things right we used to give away
ipads for referrals
that's a good one actually tends to work
well
all right i think that's another
question
we have another question in the case i
can read out um any concerns about the
type of work you give interns
due to confidentiality or risk of them
taking your company's insights
to a full-time job as a competitor yeah
it's a good question
i think that you have to really treat
interns contractors full
times with the same level of
confidentiality as anything else in your
business
which probably means just explaining it
right so
and maybe the worry here is that interns
don't fully grasp
what's confidential and what's not
compared to full times
so as long as you explain it and how you
know like for example
maybe an intern works at uber and then
goes to work at lyft right those are
competitor companies
um so it's probably more of a
conversation to say hey here's what i'm
um here's what i think it means to be
like working on this project
and when you leave here's what you can
talk about and not talk about actually
the a very common question i get is what
can i put on my resume
and so i do tell people that um
if you're talking about high level
projects and technologies used go ahead
if you're talking specifically like you
know hey i worked on this
this feature that's not like not and
it's not out yet right like hey we're
work i worked on this feature to help
this happen and it's not uh released
like that may not be kosher
but the ability to say hey i worked on a
feature in this team
and uh i used this technology stack um
it's probably okay
and then when the feature comes out
maybe it's fine you're like hey i worked
on this feature it's now out
so it is it's a good question vic
because you do want to make sure that
um you've explained it and people
understand it but i don't think it
should be different
for contractors and full times don't
forget the age difference between a
full-time and an intern might be zero
like they might both be 18 and so it's
probably more of a conversation
um when they're leaving the company or
what they're gonna put on their resume
and
i'd rather not really have like a policy
i'd rather just talk to people who
it's like oh i would say less than three
percent of the people you probably have
to have an issue and you have to
probably just talk to those people
cool more questions let me take a sip of
water i've been talking
yes darshan yes quick question um when
you bring in interns
uh do you have a program or emphasis on
rotating
them within different departments within
the company or do you find having them
focus on one
area one intern and think long term or
what
do you what do you where do you sit on
that yeah no that's a good question
i think it depends on the type of
internship so
like a four month internship you
probably can just do one or two projects
that's my thinking on that i mean not a
hard and fast rule but usually
an intern should get a rotation between
like maybe one or two projects to see
like what's going on in different areas
um then when they come back maybe it's a
different one or two projects
uh the longer ones like i've seen you
know when we we did like the 16-month
internships with some of the people from
the university of toronto for example
i would put them on like two eight-month
projects like longer things but i think
it's good to
move between maybe two things versus
staying in one team
but i've seen uh success in like having
an intern work on one four-month project
the whole time
so it totally depends on your company it
also depends on how long it takes to
ramp up
because it takes you six weeks to sort
of ramp up it probably doesn't make
sense to do two months project
right and it might be the technology
stack it might be your domain
that's complicated
more questions
i'm like the only one so passionate
about interns
hey faran this is raj kara nice to see
you thank you for your your
comments um so so i've built a few sas
companies and i know one of the things
that we did
because we did we were not a brand name
like shopify and uh we would we would
actually reach out to university
professors in the computer science
departments or even marketing
departments
uh and they would actually create teams
for us as a team group project
have you had any success doing something
like that especially for companies that
don't have a brand name because
you know students might be attracted to
the to the big shiny objects and not
realize there's
really good opportunities at smaller
companies i love it
so i love that idea so i think there's a
few things in there one
hundred percent reach out to professors
reach out to the co-op coordinators like
at those schools
reach out to different departments
that's number one two i love the idea of
the team
like hey do you wanna have teams and
either you hire the team or they work on
a project and you compensate them like
there's probably a good push and pull
there
what i would add there is in order to
get them excited about your company
maybe actually just a job and a team
working together is enough
but i would go into the class whether
virtually or in person eventually
and do a talk like come in and do a talk
about how your company and how and what
what like some topic that they might not
know about
i think that for me has been a super
successful way to connect with the
students more directly
and then you can also say something like
if you have questions like message me on
twitter
or like email me and you can kind of
keep a conversation but i love that idea
like don't forget the professors know
also what the
like who the best students are and so
they always know
exactly and so you're you're hitting on
like a really good
like secret meaning like not many people
do this but i've been doing it like my
whole career
like email professors get get them to
get them to recommend you students
and um and then go after those students
so i think it's a great idea yeah
i love the idea of giving a talk that's
a really good one i hadn't done that one
before but uh but that's a good one
thanks
yeah yeah 100 and good and great idea
i like um i'd like to second that uh
roger's idea is great it
reminds me that we actually went into a
stanford class where they did a group
project
it was a course that the professor ran
this way for many years and um
i knew him so i you know offered to
basically sponsor a project for our
company
and uh you know we got i think we did it
twice and then one of the times we got a
team of five
where one of the guys was actually a
high school student he was just an
unbelievably sharp
way advanced ahead of his years kind of
a guy we ended up bringing him on as an
intern
and you know i thought he was phenomenal
he ended up actually
dropping out of college once he went to
galileo college or at least taking a
sabbatical
starting a company that was funded
through tech stars and is doing well now
so
it can be a great way to find hidden
gems um and the nice thing is that you
sort of reduce the risk a little bit
because it's coming in as a group
and you can kind of see in that group
who the strong players are that you
might want to bring on later as an
intern
yeah and i think the only thing the only
thing yeah i think i love that idea
the only thing i try to worry about for
myself is like i
it's hard to know who's going to be good
and who's not like marx is one
one like signal so high marks is one
signal maybe a good signal
and so i love i love talking to the
students directly just to be like hey if
people are passionate have an idea
you know it's more like a internship is
a really a trial so they can try it out
the other thing is i'm always recruiting
whether it's full-time or interns
i hired my next neighbor's daughter as
an intern she was doing computer
engineering and she worked for me for
like
for four months at my last company so
i'm always looking for when i meet
people i'm like oh what are you doing
like oh i'm doing this i'm like have you
thought about interning like and
you can create a you know if you're a
small company it's probably easier to
create like a a job opening
as long as you adhere to some of the
things in here which is give them a real
job a real like
chance of building something and then
even big companies like shopify like we
have a big internship program
but uh sometimes people email me
directly and if i have a relationship
i'm like oh
maybe i can have them work for me
directly on some special project and so
i'm a big fan of trying to create those
pathways
because one you're not gonna know who's
a fit until they work for you probably
um and you'll i guarantee you'll learn
something from them
i think that's the counterintuitive part
you will always learn something from an
intern
right actually here's a funny story um
when
i was uh interviewing for interns at
waterloo i tweeted out
back at waterloo like you know hiring
interns
one of my previous interns came by the
room and brought my lunch which is funny
because
like i didn't have lunch so he brought
lunch we went for a walk and
now he's doing a talk for me on like uh
you know
uh crypto like uh for shopify like it's
pretty funny like
it all comes full circle that you know
now i'm learning from him uh and like
10 years ago he worked for me as an
intern so i think that it always comes
full circle if you have these long
long if you play the long game in your
head around like how long these
relationships could be it could be
lasting
more questions
i'll say i'll add one more one anecdote
from a previous intern that i tried to
hire
uh many times and she never uh wanted to
work for me again
but um i think that the cool thing about
an internship
and we talked about this a little bit is
because it's four months and they could
try multiple things you're really giving
them a like a longer
job trial before trying to figure out if
they could be a fit for you full time
and so this happened to me where i was
working with an intern
and over a two-month period um
she really struggled to kind of you know
pick up like whatever was happening in
the project and it wasn't really working
out and
we never you know i never i don't think
i ever let go of an intern but we were
really trying to struggle to figure out
where she would um do well
moved her into a different team in a
different domain and she she was amazing
and like really crushed it
we ended up hiring her full time at that
company i tried to hire her again when i
left to start a new company
and all i'm saying with that example is
just like full times it may not be a
perfect fit
and in your whatever team you put them
in or whatever technology stack
and so trying to figure that out just
like a full-time just like with a
full-time
can be really impactful because we ended
up hiring an amazing
you know i think now she's an
engineering manager um and we figured
that out via her internship
but it wasn't like a first try thing and
it ended everybody's different
right so oh here's a question i'm in a
startup and finances are tight is there
a renumeration method that's based upon
hiring interns at salesforce page
permission referral fees
so okay so suggested salary ranges i'll
go back to
this like this this was this slide was
it really had a very wide range like for
example let's just look at work term six
math you'll see the average is 30 bucks
an hour
the lowest is 15 which is half and the
highest is double
so you've got a giant range there right
from 15 to 60 right like 4x
so i think in there is probably useful
actually so just so you know what i
would always do is i always just use
the average i thought that that was fair
or rounded up the average like that was
something that i think well i don't know
what actually to be honest i don't know
what shopify does now in terms of
internet sales but that's what i used to
do my startups
um renumeration so i think you should
pay everybody a salary
what you should also do this is from
craig taylor is look up
government programs that might be in
your area to help renumerate for interns
so in canada we do have a bunch of
programs i think there's other ones in
the states as well
so that you can get that renumeration um
you're saying as salesforce paid by
commission referral fees i'm not sure
what you mean by commission
or commission or referral but we did
like
i always i mean i did i've hired interns
in the in sales as well
and we would have a commission structure
for them also
and someone asked about dev degree so
shopify has a
has an interesting program called dev
degree and what dev degree is
it's a program in conjunction with a few
schools whereby
you get your university paid for and you
do your internships all at shopify
and so it's actually a really amazing
program we've seen
a crazy number of applications every
year we
we offer it and it's really like a
go to school do work go to school do
work and so you're basically completing
both things at the same time
uh and then of course at the end of your
you know uh four-year degree
um there's a conversation on whether you
wanted to you know whether you want to
be a shopify full-time after that
so um there's lots of information i
think the website dev degree dot com or
dev degree
ca to find out more
cool any more questions so we're almost
out of time
good ideas on how you can predict
performance for non-technical
internships
from lacey so you're asking like a very
um
a very good question about performance
prediction which i would say for any job
it's really hard to predict in
performance except from previous
performance meaning
the interviews are not a good predictor
but performance is typically a good
predictor
so in a four-month internship though you
have a lot of data
you um are not going to be
using data just from like three or four
even eight hours of interviews you're
using data over four months of work
so i think you really do need to look at
all of the indicators in that four
months of work to figure out if they are
these are things and attributes that you
want to have at your company
i don't think you have to guess right
like here's a good example
um when a pre when when somebody who
used to work for me or a previous intern
wants to come back for a full-time job
we don't put them in the interview
process right because
unless you really just got to figure out
one dimension of them like you might
want to figure out oh they worked for a
few years do you want to figure out
they're like an engineering manager or
company or
or a tech lead like you can do an
interview for that but you've got months
and months of data
so the interview is not going to give
you any more data so i think
your question lacey is probably is
closer to
um hey how do i how do i do performance
management of my team
and i think that's something that you
can really take away from like the
full-time work that you folks are doing
in that in that also
i hear somebody posted yeah dev degree
dot ca is the is the url
so yeah so lacie yes so what i look at
is like hey after four months of work
and you can you can do this in a
in a more structured way do a 30 60 90
day check-in with folks
and say are they doing the things i
would expect somebody after 30 days to
be able to do at my company
cool lindsay's giving me the face so i
think we're out of time
this was a great session thank you so
much for han and thank you everybody for
joining the conversation
um we've got some more sessions um next
so hopefully you stick around
and again thank you for han and we'll be
in touch
cool you can always you can always tweet
at me with your questions
if uh and my twitter is somewhere
probably at the beginning
if people want to tweet i'm always good
good to talk about internships on
twitter actually that's how
this whole session got started with
jason saying hey dude let's do a talk
awesome thanks again have a good day
everyone thanks everyone
bye
[Music]
you